# BCA Dissertation Project
The purpose of this project is to provide wasted food to the underprivileged and connect the supply chains with people seeking for help. Everyday huge amounts of food goes to waste every day, by getting places like restaurants, supermarkets, events which we wish to connect to other people in order to reduce food wastage via our application designed for providing a better food recovery system.

Food loss and food waste refer to the decrease of food in subsequent stages of the food supply chains intended for human consumption. The decrease may be accidental or intentional. One-third of the food produced for human consumption is lost or wasted worldwide, which is more than enough to feed the entire malnourished population of the entire world. Food wastage is becoming a rising concern over all the countries as it leads to waste of the resources used in production, such as land, water, energy, and inputs, which increases the greenhouse gas emissions in vain.

We chose food wastage as our project because we believe that there is a lack of knowledge, motivation, ability and opportunity amongst the general public as people underestimate their own waste. This project helps in spreading awareness about food wastage and record statistical data which can be used for analysis purpose as it is clear that food availability statistics provide information that should not be used as an estimate of individual dietary consumption and that actual food consumption data will be needed to assess the impacts on the health of future developments in the agricultural and food systems. 

We did a literature review of 25 articles searched on the internet in order to gain insights on recovery of food wastage across the globe. It was clearly understood as an under-progression in several ways for the poor. We also found out that individuals are willing to work towards this issue and it could make a huge difference in this situation given proper knowledge and opportunities by the government. 

Food loss can be reduced by many ways. A study suggests that current surplus food redistribution in the cities can make a significant contribution to food waste reduction and that it should be considered as a strategy to reduce food waste. We wanted to find out more about how food is being wasted and where should be our main focus in terms of reducing it. We asked around people and restaurant crew to answer some of the questions. The questions were:
(1) Are you aware of the consequences of food wastage (for example, 1⁄4 of wasted food could feed all 795 million of undernourished people in the world)?  (2) Are you willing to help towards reduction of food wastage?  (3) Where is the largest amount of wasted food produced? (4) Do you like the idea of delivering wasted food to others?  (5) Are you willing to volunteer for delivering wasted food to others?

The survey took 4 days. The response to the above questions were positive about helping in reducing food wastage. It was recorded 100% people were willing to help in reducing food wastage in spite of around 50% (out of 168 responses) being aware about the consequences of food loss. Mostly people wanted a delivery service rather than self-service in order to reach out to the underprivileged. 

It is important for us to put spotlight on the percentage of food being wasted every year. We have a report of our work in order to provide more details on food waste reduction including the literature review of 25 research articles. 
